<q>
tiger woods wins masters 2019
</q>

<d>
Tiger Woods claims Masters golf crown for his 15th major title

American claims the green jacket 14 years after his last triumph at the Augusta National course

Former world number one Tiger Woods is the Masters golf champion for a fifth time.

His victory on Sunday (14th April 2019) comes 14 years after his last triumph at the Augusta National course in Georgia, USA.

It's the American's 15th major title, but his first since 2008 after a series of injuries and well publicised controversies in his personal life.

Woods shot a two-under par 70 in the final round, which had begun earlier than originally scheduled due to the forecast of bad weather and thunderstorms heading through the Atlanta area.

It also led to organisers cancelling the green jacket ceremony traditionally held on the terrace putting green at the famous course.

But none of that will take the shine off one of the great sporting comebacks. At times even Tiger admitted he may never play again due to a back injury which required multiple operations.

Woods was clearly emotional as he punched the air in celebration after sinking a short final putt for the win, while fans around Augusta celebrated wildly.

He becomes only the second player, after Jack Nicklaus, to win the Masters in 3 different decades. Woods won his first Masters title in 1997.

His performance and consistency over the four days was reminiscent of the years when he dominated the men's game.

He shot a first round of 70 on Thursday, a 68 on Friday, a 67 on Saturday to put him well in contention for the victory, and an impressive final round left him walking up the final fairway knowing victory was in sight.

The 43-year-old finished on 13-under par to win by 1 shot.

A trio of fellow Americans - Dustin Johnson, Brooks Koepka, and Xander Schauffele - were tied for second place

</d>


<summ>
Former world number one Tiger Woods is the Masters golf champion for a fifth time. His victory on Sunday (14th April 2019) comes 14 years
</summ>