<q>
short summary of Pride and Prejudice
</q>

<d>
Pride and Prejudice Summary in Short

The Pride and Prejudice Summary

This article deals with the Pride and Prejudice summary. The author of the novel is Jane Austen. This is a romantic work of fiction by her in the year 1813. The Pride and Prejudice summary of the book is a story that focuses on the relationship between Elizabeth Bennet, the protagonist of the story, and Fitzwilliam Darcy. Elizabeth was the daughter of a country gentleman whereas Darcy was a rich landowner. Mr. Bennet, Elizabeth’s father, residing in Longbourn estate has five daughters. His property is entailed. Thus, by law, it can only be passed to a male heir. Hence, they are eager to get at least one of the girls get married soon.

This article is about the Pride and Prejudice Summary by Jane Austen. It explains the pride and prejudice summary in short. The plot of the pride and prejudice summary is of rural England during the early 19th century. The Bennet family had five daughters. Mrs. Bennet is very keen to get her daughters married so that their estate which is entailed does not pass on to William Collins after the demise of Mr. Bennet in the absence of any legal male heir. William Collins was Mr. Bennet’s cousin.

Thus, she convinces her husband to visit Mr. Bingley. He was a bachelor and was rich who had recently shifted to a rented house in the neighborhood. Mr. Bennet went to visit him and he gave them an invitation to attend a ball at the assembly rooms.

He was a friendly and cheerful man and showed interest in Jane Bennet. Jane was the eldest among all the sisters and was beautiful and shy. However, Fitzwilliam Darcy, Charles Bingley’s friend, refuses to dance with Elizabeth saying that she is not attractive enough. Darcy was a very wealthy, arrogant, and reserved gentleman. Elizabeth was the second eldest sister among the Bennet sisters and finds the reason for Darcy’s refusal funny.

Caroline, Charles’s sister invites Jane to her house at Netherfield for dinner. But, on her way to Bingley’s house, she gets drenched in rains and gets bad cold. She thus had to stay there only and Elizabeth goes to see her. At this point in time, Darcy gets attracted to her beautiful eyes.

Soon, Collins visits the Bennet family. On finding that Jane may soon get married, he eyes on Elizabeth. However, Elizabeth refuses to marry him, and soon he gets engaged to her friend Charlotte Lucas.

Meanwhile, the Bennet family meets George Wickham, an army officer, who likes Elizabeth and she also likes him. He accuses Darcy of depriving him of a job that Darcy’s late father had promised him. This information further increases the dislike towards Darcy in Elizabeth’s heart.

Bingley organizes a ball at Netherfield, their residence. Darcy asks Elizabeth for a dance that she could not refuse though she had vowed not to dance with him ever.

Soon afterward, Charles suddenly leaves for London. Elizabeth holds Darcy responsible for this and her dislike for him becomes stronger. Jane on visiting her Aunt and Uncle Gardiner in London realizes that Caroline Bingley has no interest in Jane and her brother’s relationship. This makes Jane feel upset.

During the spring season, Elizabeth visits Kent to see her friend Charlotte and Collins. Lady Catherine de Bourgh, the aunt of Collins and Darcy, invites them to her house. There she meets Darcy also. Meanwhile, he grew fond of Elizabeth and proposed her. She refused his proposal and condemned him for breaking the relationship between her sister Jane and Bingley.

Later, he wrote a letter to her explaining that he feels that Jane was indifferent to Bingley and also due to the indecent behavior of her family members. Thus, he advised his friend to break up with Jane. He also explains that he gave Wickham money which he misspent. Not only this, but he also tried to marry his 15 years old sister for money.

A few months later, when Elizabeth goes together with Gardiners on a tour of Derbyshire, they also visit Pemberley. Pemberley was the Darcy estate where she comes to know that Darcy is a kind-hearted and generous man. Darcy invites them home to meet her sister Georgia.

Meanwhile, she gets the news of her sister Lydia eloping with Wickham. She rushes to return home with a fear that now the family name will be ruined and Darcy would never see her again. However, Wickham agrees to marry Lydia. Elizabeth comes to know that Darcy gave him money and persuaded him to marry Lydia. Mrs. Gardiner believes that he did so because he loves Elizabeth a lot.

Darcy also convinced Bingley to marry Jane. In the end, Darcy again proposes Elizabeth, and this time she accepts his proposal. She tells her parents that she is marrying for she loves Darcy and not because of his money or power.

</d>
<summ>
The plot of the pride and prejudice summary is of rural England during the early 19th century. The Bennet family had five daughters. Mrs. Bennet is very keen to
</summ>