<q>
moneyball explained
</q>

<d>

My CEO and I love the movie Moneyball. There's the obvious reason (we live in New England and this is what got the Boston Red Sox their first World Series win in over 86 years. Second, it's a great film adaptation of a smart book. Third, is is the movie about how sometimes the best way to find value is through a very different statistic than what the regular and normative ways of deciding things would suggest. But there's an issue.
You Sort of Have to Watch Moneyball, but I'll Try Matching It Up

 My point about the "problem" with Moneyball requires that I explain it a tiny bit. The idea is that General Manager Billy Beane shows up to help the Oakland A's in 2003. He has very limited budget (which is what the title is pointing out: baseball seems largely dependent on a large player budget to influence outcomes), and decides he has to get creative. 

Enter Peter Brand (real name: Paul DePodesta), a whiz kid math and analytics genius who doesn't look or act like the typical person around the baseball management office. He's nerdy, loves statistics, and shows Billy a curious but incredibly important detail: if a team could build an collected value around one statistic - on base average (OBA), then they could stand a chance to win against other teams who plan their budgets around all kinds of strange intangibles like "star power" and "how they hit against lefties" and so on. 

The not-exactly-magic of this idea is that if you see things differently and act differently - BUT WITH DATA - you can create unique and surprising outcomes.

In real life (and in the movie), this method gets Beane's A's pretty far into the season (though they don't win the World Series. Shortly after, the same methodology leads the Red Sox to a massive win. 

NOW, I've caught you up. Let me explain the problem with Moneyball.
People Can't See "New" Very Well

This scene explains it well. It's 5.5 minutes. (Brad Pitt is Billy Beane. Jonah Hill is Peter Brand. )

Okay. So what's wrong with an idea like Moneyball is that it takes a LOT of reframing, re-educating, training, teaching, repeating, walking the talk, reinforcing and on and on. You know what I mean? 

This scene is five minutes long, but imagine the baseball season they're built around. In a later scene, the A's coach (played by Philip Seymour Hoffman) tries thwarting Billy's plans by playing the team he wants, and not following Billy's vision. Billy drives his point home by firing everyone that Hoffman tries to use that doesn't match the new strategy. 

This went on for weeks and months. People didn't see the new idea, get excited, and implement it. They resisted. Because it was new. Foreign. Didn't match their breadth of experience. 
Humans CRAVE Pattern Matching

We tend to approach new information with "what do I already know that I can apply to this new thing?" If we can't quite identify or fully understand the new thing, quite often, we go "fight or flight." We either run away from the new thing or we reject it. 

It's weird, because in another way, we really want variety. But we want new things to match what we understand. When we think of salad toppings, maybe we'll add Cheez-Itz instead of croutons, but you wouldn't crumble a chocolate chunk cookie onto your salad. (Bet that wouldn't taste too bad, though.) 

Thus, a really clever and unique and novel idea like Moneyball has a real hard time taking hold. And if people don't get it, or worse, apply lip service to it, things will likely fail. 
What Will You Do To "Install" Moneyball at Work?

Not that specific idea, YOUR idea. How can you help people get what you're trying to bring aboard? How will you share what people need to bridge "how things were" to "holy cats - this is a completely different universe now?" 

It's not easy. What's your take? 

Chris... 


</d>
<summ>
You Sort of Have to Watch Moneyball, but I'll Try Matching It Up. My point about the "problem" with Moneyball requires that I explain it a tiny
</summ>