<q>
Birthplace of Mozart
</q>

<summ>
W. A. Mozart was born in 1756 in the "Hagenauer Haus" of Getreidegasse 9 in Salzburg.
</summ>


<d>
Mozart's Birthplace

W. A. Mozart was born in 1756 in the "Hagenauer Haus" at No. 9 Getreidegasse in Salzburg. Today, Mozart's Birthplace is one of the most visited museums in Austria and is an absolute highlight, above all for Mozart fans.

Famous residents of the "Hagenauer House": The Mozarts

One certain house in the Getreidegasse always draws particular attention: No. 9, the house in which Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was born. Salzburg’s most famous son came into this world on 27 January 1756. His family actually lived here for 26 years, from 1747 on, occupying an apartment on the third floor. With parents Leopold and Anna Maria as well as sister "Nannerl", Mozart spend his childhood and much of his youth there. In 1773, the family moved to the house we know today as the "Mozart Residence", on the Makartplatz Square.
Museum and "pilgrimage site"

The famous composer's birthplace continues to be a magnet for Mozart fans and history buffs from around the world. It was actually the International Mozarteum Foundation which first opened a museum in the house back in 1880. Constantly developed and expanded, this year-round museum is an absolute must for every Salzburg visitor.
Walking tour through Mozart's times

The museum invites you to take a tour lasting about an hour through original rooms. Also amble through a middle-class apartment reconstructed as authentically as possible. Discover items of everyday life as well as furniture from the 18th century, and feel as if you have personally been transported back to the days of Mozart!
Unique and original exhibition pieces

Original certificates, letters and memorabilia document Mozart's life in Salzburg. A collection of portraits, mostly done during Mozart's lifetime, allows you to experience this musical genius face-to-face. A particular joy for Mozart fans: the historical instruments, including Mozart's own violin and clavichord.
The many faces of Mozart

The childhood of this wunderkind, the long years of traveling, and his mysterious death: the museum at Mozart's Birthplace casts light on the man and artist from many different perspectives. On the first floor, a rotating annual exhibition always has a fresh appeal to even the best-versed Mozart admirers.
</d>